# Book-Recommendation-system
The first part of the project begins with a simple exploratory data analysis using the pandas library where project is aimed to find out the several statistics and some metadata immersed within the dataset. Post generating the pivot table, the machine learning model known as KNN ; K Nearest Neighbors was also implemented to generate the user-matrix. This was an efficient way to generate the top-k recommendations of several books available in the dataset. Several graphs were plotted and observations were made to understand the nature of the data to be analyzed. The second module of the project included the very same recommender however implementing the same with Pyspark’s ALS algorithm. ALS, known as Alternating Least Squares is the very core of the collaborative filtering technique which is used by a lot of the recommender systems that are available today. Post implementing the algorithm, we tried to test the same for one user as well as multiple users. One way of looking at this could mean recommending many books for one user or keeping a log of the recommendation of one book to many users. , have tried to demonstrate three different types of recommender systems - one with ALS, a Neural one and its Graph counterpart. A Neural recommender made with single layer embedding in Keras also demonstrates the least loss encountered during training of the dataset, which was done on a 80-20 split ratio. The above method displayed a successful set of books that were to be recommended to a user based on their previous reading history. Last but not the least a bipartite complex graph recommender system which ran across community detection algorithms to find out what books have been read together. A graph did get visualized, however owing to the large size of the dataset led to rather a graph that was all over the place. The graph however did get stored and displayed the possible books that were to be recommended to the user and a possible set of the books that other users might have read that the current user may like to read as well. 
